I am here with david jaffe is the
co-director of twisted metal and right
now we're taking a look at multiplayer
so will you tell me what we're looking
at right now yeah this is a mode called
nuke that's taking place on la skyline
our roof tops level in the game and it's
kind of you know we've been describing a
sort of our twisted metal taking capture
the flag but that's not really what it
is is we have seven modes in the game
then we really wanted each one to be
different you know and so this is one
that's really team-based and sort of all
this class space where like Drew who's
playing the game right now is playing
junkyard dog and this is sort of the
medic in the version of nuke so he can
launch these taxicabs that you'll see
and he can detonate them wherever he
wants and that ring sends out healing to
all of his team and the longer it sits
the more healing power gives if he can
also sort of team up with other players
in the game like I think juggernaut
who's like our big semi-truck with the
tractor trailers driving around he can
drive into the back of Juggernog he can
man the gun and juggernaut and take out
the other enemies but what's really cool
is because he's the healer he can also
back out of juggernaut when juggernaut
who's like the most powerful character
in the game is about to give his you
know he killed and heal them up get
right back in sort of tucked safely away
inside so there's a lot of like a lot of
people think of twist metal and really
look at the surface which is a lot of
fun a lot of destructibility and stuff
like that but there really is especially
with this new one for ps3 there really
is just so much strategy and skill and
tactics and just a lot of depth that we
wanted to build into this one so in this
particular mode you're trying to kidnap
the faction leader of the enemy team and
drew actually has one of the the dolls
and she's dragging behind the car you
can kind of see right now it's a little
dark on the screen and he's trying to
bring her to this sort of wood chipper /
missile launcher and feed her to that
and the wood chipper andaman well it's
kind of you know I did excessive it is
but in this economy we figured if you
could kind of take two things that are
valuable like a wood chipper and missile
launcher merge them together you're
gonna get more bang for your buck and
we're really all about saving people
money so the point is that so now what
he's doing is so the other teams gonna
try to stop him from sacrifice and every
vehicle has its own speed right so
junkyard dog is an extremely slow
vehicle to sacrifice people where it's
like a sports car which gonna give a
fuck kick to the game but can sacrifice
really really
ass so it's actually kind of cool
whereas junkyard dog you only get a
couple of them per level so you have to
kind of figure out strategically when
you want to bring them out but it's
really cool because if you're driving
around with kamikaze our sports car he's
really great at sort of playing defense
and protection so he'll be feeling
kamikaze up while people are trying to
take him out before he launches the
missile so all these different cars and
sort of pros and cons of the vehicles
work together and in this particular
version of knew what you're trying to do
is shoot the missile at the enemy statue
and you can get it every time you get it
at a point and the P its kind like
baseball there's like four or five
innings and after that after all the
innings run out people with the most
points win but the problem is you don't
see the statue right now because the the
people on your team and this mode would
have to be sitting on a pressure plate
to raise the statue out of this building
and it sounds like no one on their end
is being told they should do that but
let's see hopefully in a second you'll
see a green square green triangle which
is your team light it up and now you'll
actually see the statue rising and as
long as that pad back there is being
protected and you're flying the missile
you can get your point so I just I I
love the fact that our one into the
spectrum we have like free-for-all
deathmatch Team Deathmatch we have great
last team standing with a team share
lives and have to work together reveal
each other to kind of win the game and
we have kind of more straight up games
and then we have these much much deeper
sort of team-based games and class-based
games and I just I think you know we've
been making to pursue mental games
honest it's 95 on the first PlayStation
and this one I think represents you know
myself the guys out in Utah really the
the game that we've been wanting to make
you know since we first envisioned it
back in the day
do you think this game relates most
closely to the experience you'd have in
like a shooter like a call of duty
online multiplayer or you know it more
closely 20 something you find in a
racing game it's not i mean we in our
campaign mode we have some racing
segments just to break things up and
it's absolutely a shooter it happens to
be a sugar that takes place in vehicles
its vehicle combat but then it's not a
racing game in fact even if you look at
the default controls we sort of you know
gave in to pressure as we should have I
mean if you if you if you set the
controls for modern racing controls like
you can drive with it with the shoulder
pads and things but honestly our default
controls really are more mapped like a
shooter because they happen to look like
cars and they kind of drive like ours
but this really is kind of more of a
sort of a fuck we've always called it
like a fighting game in vehicle so it's
absolutely a cross between a shooter and
a fighting game and you know
those can ask any balance one team has a
juggernaut and the other team doesn't
how do you work with that well in rain
games um it's actually a really great
question that we'll have to see how it
kind of plays out online I mean but in
ray games you have a limited number of
certain vehicles so you only have one
juggernaut in those great games you have
like two or three talons which are
helicopters you have like one or two
junkyard dog so we would talk about this
stuff and I would I would always say I
get with a lot of people that want to
wear headsets and get that a lot of
people just want to go in and lone
soldier and we totally have modes to
promote that and you can make those
players satisfied for this one what I
love is if you really are a team or a
plan that's really cohesive and trained
I love we have a loading the game that
like when you ask the team that's going
to do well is going to bring that one
juggernaut out at the right time when
they needed the mode the team that's
going to do well as gonna say you know
what maybe we should save our junkyard
dogs because we're behind you in gaining
three and let's make sure that we get a
couple missiles off by making sure we've
kept our junkyard dog in the garage and
we haven't wasted it and so it really is
balanced in that way in that you know
everybody has the same amount of
resources when they go into a battle and
it really has more to do with you know
playing in the two games again the
free-for-all go crazy Hillary buddies
and my junkyard dogs nearly they exactly
the same as somebody else's junk yard
dog you mean usually or no empower
absolutely absolutely alright visually
well visually you know they said we
couldn't talk about my contacts one days
I'm love about this game as well as like
you look you know I I I was you know
getting into the industry when quake was
kind of all the rage and stuff and I
love going online and save his crazy ass
skin I don't know when I was like
fighting like Glenda pooh and tigger
people are kind of create a gift and
today that's kind of lost a lot you know
a lot of its business first
a lot of it's because you know your ear
actual surface space to sort of
creatively express yourself is pretty
small what's great is we and equal to
all this space to let players of
trustees off so let's just say that
that's certainly our mind very soon
we'll be talking about how your junkyard
dog can be very very different if you
ever want to find me online I'm the girl
in the pink car uniform helmet
everything I'm pretty obvious all right
so why can we see the game valentine's
day if every 14 it's very romantic yes
indeed